---
author: Stephen Wolff
date: 2026-06-12
tags:
  - cybersecurity
  - Executive Order 14409 (US)
  - Institute for Security and Technology (IST)
  - vulnerability management
title: IST webinar
title-sub: Reflections on IST webinar on AI and cybersecurity
---
## Summary

- AI has drastically increased the speed, scale, and sophistication of vulnerability discovery and exploitation.
- The process of vulnerability management must change to accommodate (and I would add incorporate) AI.
- The US government should reorganize and refocus its programs for managing vulnerabilities (namely, CVE, NVD, and KEV), facilitating more direct vendor input.
- US Executive Order 14409 applies an outdated approach to ill-informed goals.
    - Rather than seek exclusive early access to vulnerability discovery, the US government should gather industry experts to address challenges to efficient vulnerability triage (for software developers) and swift yet safe vulnerability remediation (for software users).



## Discussion

On 8 June 2026, the Institute for Security and Technology hosted a webinar titled "A policy response to the Mythos moment: Breaking down the AI and cybersecurity EO" ([event webpage](https://securityandtechnology.org/event/a-policy-response-to-the-mythos-moment-breaking-down-the-ai-and-cybersecurity-eo/), [recording on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/live/vaDApgbGxa0)). I thank the webinar's panelists---Jen Ellis, Jason Kikta, Katie Noble, and Megan Stifel---for sharing their time and expertise.

The following are my notes (non-exhaustive and heavily revised) from the webinar and my reflections on the topics discussed. I focus on challenges to vulnerability management and potential solutions. I briefly review the content of the executive order.

I organize these notes as follows:

1. [Vulnerability disclosure](#vulnerability-disclosure)
2. [US government infrastructure for vulnerability management](#us-government-infrastructure-for-vulnerability-management)
3. [Executive Order 14409](#executive-order-14409)
4. [My reflections](#my-reflections)



### Vulnerability disclosure

Prior to AI models like Anthropic's Mythos, coordinated vulnerability disclosure in the US proceeded as follows (in theory):

1. Someone ("the finder") discovers a vulnerability in software.
2. The finder reports the vulnerability exclusively to the software's vendor.
    - The embargo period begins; information about the vulnerability should not be shared publicly.
3. The vendor triages their vulnerability reports.
4. The vendor verifies the vulnerability.
5. The vendor develops a patch (or develops mitigation techniques) for the vulnerability.
6. The vendor releases the patch (or mitigation techniques), disclosing the vulnerability.
    - The embargo period ends.
7. Organizations implement the patch (or at least one mitigation).

In practice, Ellis notes, this process was not going well, even before 2020s-era AI burst onto the scene. Software vendors do not always respond promptly, or at all, to vulnerability reports; if a vulnerability is verified and approved for patching, the vendor must pull developers from other work to develop the patch, which typically excites neither vendor nor developers; and once a patch or mitigation technique is released, organizations often struggle to implement it promptly, or at all. Software vendors can struggle with the volume of vulnerability reports; organizations can struggle with the volume of patches. 2020s-era AI, in particular the speed, scale, and sophistication with which it can discover and exploit vulnerabilities, exacerbates both struggles.



### US government infrastructure for vulnerability management

The US government has three main programs to manage cybersecurity vulnerabilities:

- Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE)
- National Vulnerability Database (NVD)
- Known Exploited Vulnerabilities (KEV)

The CVE program was created in 1999 and is maintained by the non-profit MITRE Corporation with funding from the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and sponsorship from the DHS's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). The CVE program's mission is to identify and catalog software vulnerabilities. It is a community-based system: Pre-approved organizations known as CVE Numbering Authorities (CNAs) create CVE Records (hereafter, CVEs) and directly publish them to the CVE List.

The NVD, initially called the Internet - Categorization of Attacks Toolkit (ICAT), was created in 1999 and is maintained by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). To better understand the NVD's role, we pause for a quick history lesson. Originally, each CVE was limited to three fields: record number (CVE ID), description, and a list of reference URLs. This limited the detail that a CVE could directly provide. NVD staff enriched CVEs with additional information, creating the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) to provide impact metrics, the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) to provide vulnerability types, and the Common Platform Enumeration (CPE) to provide applicability. In 2024, the CVE program updated its record format to enable CNAs to include data like CVSS, CWE, and CPE as part of the initial CVE Record.

The KEV catalog was created in 2021 and is maintained by the US CISA. As advertised on its tin, KEV catalogs vulnerabilities that have been exploited in the wild. The goal is to enable users to better manage their particular risk.

Noble offered the following high-level analogy for these three programs:

- CVE: The dictionary
- NVD: The encyclopedia
- KEV: The trail guide (*)

(*) This last analogy comes from me, not Noble. Please feel free to suggest a better one.

#### Limitations and suggestions

Panelists agreed that all three programs---CVE, NVD, and KEV---are overwhelmed, due to a surge in vulnerability submissions. In April 2026 NIST announced changes to the workflow of the NVD program: NIST will continue to list all CVEs in the NVD, but it will allocate enrichment efforts according to prioritization criteria. In the announcement, NIST cited a 263% increase in CVE submissions from 2020 to 2025 (**), and it noted dryly, "We don't expect this trend to let up anytime soon."

Panelists also agreed that vendors should enrich their own CVEs. (Disclosure: Two of the panelists, Ellis and Noble, serve on the CVE Board.) Noble acknowledged the concern that vendors might misrepresent aspects (like the severity) of their vulnerabilities, but she expressed confidence that the community system would continue to police itself. Noble noted that NVD staff typically have background in IT, not OT, making it difficult for them to accurately enrich OT vulnerabilities. Kikta expressed doubt that it is useful for NVD staff to do any enrichment. He asserted that vendors are more accountable than CISA or NIST, and in any case, in practice, organizations tend to use the severity assessments of the vendor. Kikta proposed that the NVD simply standardize the format and provide storage, then let vendors populate the database. 

Ellis asserted that the KEV catalog is already overwhelmed and predicted that it is going to die. The culprit is an increase in the number of vulnerabilities and exploitations, in part due to AI. Noble asserted that current vulnerability-management practices are already dead. The culprit is a decrease in the time required to develop an exploit, largely due to AI. In particular, Ellis highlighted the "machine-speed chaining of vulnerabilities" that AI makes possible. This hits defenders twice: It widens the set of relevant vulnerabilities, and it makes it hard (for humans) to predict how they might be used.

(**) Jerry Gamblin presents the number of published CVEs per year [here](https://jerrygamblin.com/2026/01/01/2025-cve-data-review/); his numbers imply a 163% increase from 2020 to 2025. Gamblin notes that his numbers "exclude rejected CVEs". Toward the end of the webinar, Noble shared select data from Intel's counts of vulnerability submissions: about 80 in the first quarter of 2025, and almost 440 in the first quarter of 2026.



### Executive Order 14409

#### Overview

The following is my overview of Executive Order 14409, organized by section. Section titles, in bold, are copied verbatim from the order.

1. **Purpose.** Section 1 contains routine political rhetoric.
2. **Upgrading American systems for advanced AI.** Section 2 focuses on cybersecurity vulnerabilities and remediation.
    - Section 2(c) orders defense of federal, state, and local governments; and of critical infrastructure.
    - Section 2(d) orders the creation of "an AI cybersecurity clearinghouse, in voluntary collaboration with the AI industry and operators of critical infrastructure, that coordinates and deconflicts scanning for software vulnerabilities, discovers and validates such vulnerabilities, and coordinates and prioritizes remediation and distribution of vulnerability patches."
    - Section 2(f) orders the expansion of "United States Tech Force Information Cybersecurity Specialist hiring and placement pathways."
3. **Secure frontier model deployment.** Section 3 outlines a process for the US federal government to classify and test frontier AI models.
    - Section 3(b) orders the creation of a "voluntary framework" that grants the US federal government exclusive "early access to covered frontier models".
    - Section 3(c) emphasizes that the order does not create "a mandatory governmental licensing, preclearance, or permitting requirement for the development, publication, release, or distribution of new AI models, including frontier models."
4. **Protection against criminal actors.** Section 4 orders the US attorney general to enforce federal criminal laws against anyone who uses AI illegally, including "employing AI agents to unlawfully access data or information that is subsequently used for a criminal or unlawful purpose."
5. **General provisions.** Section 5 contains boilerplate.

#### Questions

The panelists raised the following questions about the executive order:

- Why assign the Secretary of the Treasury a leading role?
    - Section 2(d) involves the Treasury in forming an "AI cybersecurity clearinghouse".
    - Section 3 involves the Treasury to "secure frontier model deployment".
- How is a clearinghouse different from the Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative (JCDC) or Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs)?
    - The JCDC was established in 2021 by the US CISA as a public-private partnership. Its mission is to protect US critical infrastructure.
    - An ISAC is a non-profit organization specific to a critical infrastructure sector. Its mission is to promote the sharing of information and best practices relevant to physical security and cybersecurity.
- What is the implementation plan for the AI cybersecurity clearinghouse?
- Will the government ask or require vendors to provide sensitive information?
- Why does the government want exclusive early access to frontier AI models?
- Are the timelines proposed in the executive order realistic?

#### Critiques

##### Lack of understanding

Kikta asserted that the executive order reveals a lack of understanding of the current fundamental problems in cybersecurity. In particular, he argued that the executive order was overly focused on vulnerability discovery and information sharing. He worried that the executive order provides and promotes performative action that will distract vendors.

##### How to measure success?

The panelists agreed that the executive order did not clearly define ways to measure its success. Kikta proposed that a key metric is time to remediate at the edge. However, he contended we don't currently have the data or capability to measure this.

##### AI as smokescreen

In her closing remarks, Noble wondered whether the US government is using AI as an excuse to reiterate old requests. Ellis worried about potential parallels between this executive order and China's "Regulations on the management of network product security vulnerabilities": Both codify exclusive early access to vulnerability information that the government could attempt to weaponize.



### My reflections

Following are brief thoughts related to the webinar.

#### Key asymmetries

- Human speed versus machine speed
    - Systems set up for human speed are increasingly required to interface with, and defend against, faster and more sophisticated systems operating at machine speed
        - Cybersecurity
        - Military combat
        - Education
        - Finance
        - Politics
    - Regarding cybersecurity vulnerabilities, AI has reduced the time from discovery (including public disclosure) to exploit from years or months to days or hours
    - Regarding cybersecurity defense, AI has the potential to reduce the time and human effort required to...
        - Detect and correlate malicious activities
        - Take certain responsive actions
- The value of a comprehensive, up-to-date vulnerability database to attackers versus defenders
    - Defenders benefit from being alerted to relevant vulnerabilities and their available mitigations
        - After which, defenders must implement chosen mitigations at appropriate times and in ways that don't break other parts of an often complex system
            - How can AI enhance this?
    - Attackers benefit from knowing about relevant vulnerabilities and their available exploits
        - After which, attackers must find or create an exploit chain relevant to their target
            - How has AI enhanced this?
                - AI models can sometimes reverse engineer technical details about a vulnerability from a released patch
                - AI facilitates the chaining of vulnerabilities and exploits
            - In theory, attackers could first create an exploit chain, then seek vulnerable targets
                - Think password spraying
    - As in earlier times,...
        - Defenders can use AI models as attackers do (think, penetration testing) to preemptively discover and address vulnerabilities
        - Attackers need to find only one viable path to target
    - Do defenders require (far) more context around a vulnerability and its mitigations than do defenders to use the information effectively?
- Vulnerability economics for attackers versus defenders
    - Cost of a failed attack versus cost of a failed mitigation
        - For attackers, AI makes creating attacks cheaper
- Use versus understand
    - AI democratizes access to data, information, and knowledge; it does not guarantee that they are understood (however you want to define "understood") or used ethically (however you want to define "ethically")
        - As did the Web before AI; as did books before the Web
        - An educational and legal, not technological, problem?

#### System design

- Deliberately design systems to be...
    - Modular
        - Enables useful bits to be accessed by other systems or moved "hot" into new systems
    - Adaptive
        - Obstacles: inertia, resistance, practical impossibility
- Regularly (approaching continuously?) consider what system you would design if starting de novo

#### Executive orders et al.

- Pay attention
    - Pay attention to what you pay attention to
    - Choose your own objects of attention
- Ask hard questions
    - Be persistent
- Never trust, always verify

#### Give me more

- Why is the KEV catalog separate from the NVD? Why not just have a Boolean "KEV" field in NVD records, with the NVD providing a simple, prominent filter for "KEVs only"?
    - Presumably because the NVD and the KEV catalog are operated by different agencies?
        - NVD: US NIST
        - KEV: US CISA
    - A vulnerability must meet three criteria to enter the KEV catalog:
        1. Has an assigned CVE ID
        2. Has reliable evidence of exploitation in the wild
        3. Has a clear remediation guidance
    - So including two Boolean fields---"KEV" and "Remediation available"---in the NVD would functionally merge the NVD and KEV catalog, modulo who controls the values in the records?
        - Is this the "turf war" to which Noble alluded?
        - See integrity models such as Biba and Clark--Wilson
- Suppose you are the experts that the US government has gathered to update their vulnerability-management practices. You have license to propose systems de novo, but there must also be a robust transition plan.
    - What ideas would you propose?
    - What topics do we need to understand better?
        - Bring in other experts?
        - Do more research?
    - What other models could we consider?
- Time to remediate at the edge
- China's approach to cybersecurity vulnerabilities



## Event details

- Title: "A policy response to the Mythos moment: Breaking down the AI and cybersecurity EO"
    - [Event page](https://securityandtechnology.org/event/a-policy-response-to-the-mythos-moment-breaking-down-the-ai-and-cybersecurity-eo/)
- Date: 2026-06-08 14:30 UTC
- Panelists:
    - Jen Ellis
        - Founder of NextJenSecurity
        - Adjunct Senior Policy Advisor at the Institute for Security and Technology
        - CVE Board Member
    - Jason Kikta
        - Chief Technology Officer at Automox
        - Adjunct Senior Technical Advisor at the Institute for Security and Technology
    - Katie Noble
        - Director of PSIRT and Bug Bounty at Intel Corporation
        - CVE Board Member
    - Megan Stifel
        - Founder of Silicon Harbor Consultants
        - Former attorney in the National Security Division at the US Department of Justice (DOJ)
        - Former Director for International Cyber Policy at the US National Security Council (NSC)
        - Chief Strategy Officer at the Institute for Security and Technology
- Key references:
    - [US Executive Order 14409](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/06/promoting-advanced-artificial-intelligence-innovation-and-security/)
    - [Webinar recording](https://www.youtube.com/live/vaDApgbGxa0)



## References

1. China
    1. Atlantic Council : "[Slight of hand: How China weaponizes software vulnerabilities](https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/in-depth-research-reports/report/sleight-of-hand-how-china-weaponizes-software-vulnerability/)" by Dakota Cary, Kristin Del Rosso (2023-09-06).
    2. Lawfare : The Lawfare Podcast : "[China's approach to software vulnerabilities reporting](https://www.lawfaremedia.org/article/the-lawfare-podcast-china-s-approach-to-software-vulnerabilities-reporting)" by Eugenia Lostri, Dakota Cary, Kristin del Rosso (2023-10-19). 45-minute audio recording.
2. CVE
    1. CVE : "[Frequently asked questions](https://www.cve.org/ResourcesSupport/FAQs)"
    2. CVE : "[Process](https://www.cve.org/about/Process)"
    3. CVE : "[Metrics](https://www.cve.org/About/Metrics#CNAEnrichmentRecognition)"
    4. CVE : "[New CVE record format enables additional data fields at time of disclosure](https://www.cve.org/Media/News/item/blog/2024/04/30/New-CVE-Record-Format-Enables-Additional-Data)"
    5. CWE : "[History](https://cwe.mitre.org/about/history.html)"
    6. Fortinet : "[Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE): Everything you need to know](https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/cve)"
    7. Fortra : "[The history of common vulnerabilities and exposures (CVE)](https://www.tripwire.com/state-of-security/history-common-vulnerabilities-exposures-cve)" (2020-09-16)
    8. JerryGamblin : "[2025 CVE data review](https://jerrygamblin.com/2026/01/01/2025-cve-data-review/)", by Jerry Gamblin (2026-01-01)
    9. NIST : "[NIST updates NVD operations to address record CVE growth](https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2026/04/nist-updates-nvd-operations-address-record-cve-growth)"
3. Cybersecurity
    1. Cisco : Blogs : "[Security in the post-Mythos era](https://blogs.cisco.com/security/security-in-the-post-mythos-era)", by Yuri Kramarz (2026-06-09)
4. Executive Order 14409: "Promoting advanced artificial intelligence innovation and security"
    1. US National Archives > Federal Register (2026-06-04)
        1. [PDF](https://public-inspection.federalregister.gov/2026-11415.pdf)
        2. [Web](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/06/05/2026-11415/promoting-advanced-artificial-intelligence-innovation-and-security)
    2. US White House (2026-06-02)
        1. [Web](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/06/promoting-advanced-artificial-intelligence-innovation-and-security/)
5. Institute for Security and Technology
    1. [Homepage](https://securityandtechnology.org)
    2. Webinar: "A policy response to the Mythos moment: Breaking down the AI and cybersecurity EO"
        1. [Event page](https://securityandtechnology.org/event/a-policy-response-to-the-mythos-moment-breaking-down-the-ai-and-cybersecurity-eo/)
        2. [Audio-video recording](https://www.youtube.com/live/vaDApgbGxa0) (YouTube, 2026-06-08)
6. ISACs
    1. National Council of ISACs : "[About ISACs](https://www.nationalisacs.org/about-isacs)"
7. JCDC
    1. CISA : "[Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative](https://www.cisa.gov/topics/partnerships-and-collaboration/joint-cyber-defense-collaborative)"
8. KEV
    1. CISA : "[Reducing the significant risk of known exploited vulnerabilities](https://www.cisa.gov/known-exploited-vulnerabilities-catalog/reducing-significant-risk-known-exploited-vulnerabilities)"
    2. FIRST : "[A deep dive into KEV](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jL235NwqhG8)" by Tod Beardsley, Lindsey Cerkovnik (YouTube, 2024-08-06). 37-minute audio-video recording.
9. NVD
    1. Fortinet : "[What is the National Vulnerability Database (NVD)?](https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/national-vulnerability-database-nvd)"
    2. NIST : NVD : "[General information](https://nvd.nist.gov/general)"
