---
author: Stephen Wolff
date: 2026-01-24
layout: post
permalink: /2026-01-24/
tags:
  - cybersecurity
  - ISC2
  - presentation
  - Safe and Secure Online (SASO)
title: SASO presentation (2026-01-20)
---
# SASO "Career pathways" presentation : After-action report

This week I presented the "Career pathways" presentation (in English) to an audience of about thirty students at a vocational high school in Houston, Texas. Most of the students were on a cybersecurity track, so they had some background in the field. This was my first time giving this presentation.

I thank the Center staff and volunteers who worked on the slide deck. Your work showed in the professionalism of the slides and the appreciation of the audience.

I presented all the slides in one hour. I liked the clear, consistent presentation of information in each "career area" section. The "Discussion questions" slide at the end of each section nicely "traffic shaped" the presentation and provided built-in opportunities for audience participation, which helped keep the students engaged. In each section I picked one question and facilitated student-driven discussion for a few minutes. The students enjoyed being able to recall and apply cybersecurity principles and practices they had learned while also being challenged to consider new ideas and applications.

For this audience, students' attention would wander during the middle three slides in each section, which presented sample skills, responsibilities, and roles in that career area. My presentation of these slides was too list-like and didn't promote audience participation or immediate application of the information, which would have helped keep the audience engaged. Next time I might try the following:

- "Skills" slide: When reading each skill, ask students to raise their hand if they currently have that skill (two hands if it's their superpower).
- "Responsibilities" slide: This could be another "Discussions questions" slide in disguise. Pause to solicit responses to one of the scenarios; or highlight one scenario and tell students, "Think about what you'd do here. We'll discuss this in two slides," then tie it into one of the discussion questions on the final slide in that section.
- "Roles" slide: After briefly presenting the roles, ask students, "If you had to choose right now which job to work, which job would you choose?" and ask them to raise their hand to vote as you call out the roles. Encourage one or two students to comment on why they chose the role they did.

Of course, more audience interaction would likely extend the presentation time, so plan accordingly.

Students in this audience seemed more engaged when I told stories from the industry to illustrate information than when I simply presented that information. If this holds for the slide deck's target audience generally, another option (albeit one involving more work for the slide deck's creators) would be to recast the informational content of those three middle slides in a more narrative format. For example,

- "A day in the life" slides. Solicit anecdotes from ISC2 members who have worked a job role in that career area. Something like "When I worked as X, one of my key responsibilities was Y, which required skills in Z"---specific, anonymized stories illustrating sample responsibilities and skills.
- Sample "job posting" slides. Presumably the jobs would be fictitious (e.g., aggregated and anonymized from real job postings). Job postings naturally have a clear "role, responsibilities, skills" format. This format would also give students practice evaluating job postings.

If desired, the Center could include links to and brief information about their scholarships and educational opportunities (like ISC2's 1MCC initiative). This could fit nicely on the second slide ("Who we are and what we do"), which alludes to "scholarships and support", or on a separate slide at the end of the slide deck. My audience asked about these things, and I suspect that many students are interested in them.

Thank you for this opportunity. I look forward to future interactions with the community here and with audiences out there in the wild.
