# Introduction

## Preliminary definitions

- A **(cryptographic) primitive** (aka **cryptographic algorithm**) is a minimal building block in cryptography.
- A **protocol** is a sequence of steps.
    - (!!!) Distinguish protocol versus algorithm
- One combines primitives to make protocols.
- Security through obscurity versus Kerckhoffs's principle
    - **Security through obscurity** refers to relying on your adversaries not (yet) knowing about your security measures.
    - **Kerckhoffs's principle** asserts that a cryptosystem should be secure even if everything about it except its key(s) is public knowledge.
        - In this view, secrecy of the key(s), not secrecy of the algorithm, yields security.
    - Modern cryptography favors open algorithms.
- Cryptographers versus cryptanalysts
    - Cryptographers try to build cryptosystems.
    - Cryptanalysts try to break cryptosystems.
    - Many people do both.
- **Cryptography** provides security assurances to protocols in adversarial settings.
- Symmetric cryptography versus asymmetric cryptography
    - **Symmetric cryptography** (aka **secret-key cryptography**) is the set of cryptographic primitives whose functions use the same key.
        - The **key-distribution problem** refers to the challenge that, in order to use a shared key (for example, as required by symmetric encryption), participants must first (securely) share it among themselves.
    - **Asymmetric cryptography** imposes different views on different participants, often by giving different participants different access to different keys (for example, public--private key pairs).
- A **man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack** occurs when an attacker can intercept (and possibly change) communication between participants.

## Asymmetric cryptography

- Key exchange
    - Diffie--Hellman (DH) algorithm
- Asymmetric encryption
    - Rivest--Shamir--Adleman (RSA) algorithm

### RSA algorithm

- Contains two primitives:
    - Asymmetric encryption
        - Each participant has a public--private key pair.
        - Anyone can encrypt using anyone (else's) public key.
          ```
                        Key_public
                             |
                             v
                        +---------+
          Plaintext --> | ENCRYPT | --> Ciphertext
                        +---------+
          ```
        - Only the private key can decrypt messages encrypted using the paired public key.
          ```
                         Key_private
                              |
                              v
                         +---------+
          Ciphertext --> | DECRYPT | --> Plaintext
                         +---------+
          ```
    - Digital signature
        - A participant uses her private key to generate a signature for a given document.
          ```
                      Key_private
                           |
                           v
                       +------+
          Document --> | SIGN | --> Signature
                       +------+
          ```
        - Anyone can verify the signature by using the signer's public key.
          ```
                                    Key_public
                                         |
                                         v
                                    +--------+
          (Document, Signature) --> | VERIFY | --> { True | False }
                                    +--------+
          ```

## Classifying cryptography

- Symmetric versus asymmetric cryptography
- Math-based versus hueristic-based constructions
- Wong argues for using cryptographic primitives practically, not theoretically
    - As tools to make security claims
    - As building blocks to make protocols

Table. Comparing math-based and heuristic-based constructions.

|              | Math-based                 | Heuristic-based                  |
|:-------------|:---------------------------|:---------------------------------|
| Relies on... | Difficulty of math problem | Empirical evidence of difficulty |
| Speed        | Slower                     | Faster                           |
| Used in...   | Asymmetric constructions   | Symmetric constructions          |

### Desired properties in cryptography

- Confidentiality
    - Ensure only authorized entities can access and view information
- Authentication
    - Verify identity

## Choice words

On the goal of this book

- "The role of this book is to help you to create abstractions, to allow you to create a mental model of what these constructions do, and to understand how they can be combined together to produce secure protocols." (page 17)

On designing cryptographic algorithms

- "To design a cryptographic algorithm...is an easy task, but to design a _secure_ cryptographic algorithm is not for the faint of heart." (page 7)
- "Anyone, from the most clueless amateur to the best cryptographer, can create an algorithm that he himself can't break." (page 24; from Bruce Schneier, "[Memo to the amateur cipher designer](https://www.schneier.com/crypto-gram/archives/1998/1015.html#cipherdesign)")
